---
layout: post
title:  "FT May 2020"
categories: Finance
tags: FT
author: K.Asaba
description: Thoughts on Financial Times (May, 2020)
published: true
---

## 5/1
- Referring the fight against coronavirus as *war* is too rough, but they share the characteristic that the large social changes will occur thereafter. One large change would occur in universities. Once professors give lectures online, they do not have to repeat lectures anymore. As a result, they can focus on their research or helping students. Of course, universities can choose not to adopt the changes and continue as before, their university ranking would gradually fall, and they will disappear by natural selection in long term. The key is how to keep student satisfaction and provide students the opportunities to socialize.

## 5/4
- "[AI Economists](https://on.ft.com/3fjWign)" would no better than politicians and surveys. Although this idea of algorithmic economics helps businesses a lot, but it is not really helpful for politics. This is not because the accuracy or precision of predictions is difficult for politics, but because there is no specific *objective function* in politics. Policies often face with trade-offs, and AI economist is not possible to decide which side of trade-off is better. Same argument can be applied for AI-teachers. Should education prioritize high SAT scores, higher average salary, median salary, lower unemployment rate, or level of happiness? If all of them are important, how should we weight them?

## 5/5
- While the unemployment in US hits record high, stock prices start to recover. The possible factors for this recovery are:
    - Some countries including China and Korea start reopening their economy earlier than expected, showing the possibility for early recovery in US and Europe as well.
    - Unprecedented Fed intervention: it announced it will provide unlimited intervention.
    - Stock price is dominated by *expectations*. As investors have better expectations now, stock price recovered, no matter the actual condition of the economy.

## 5/6
- Surge in demand of saving lowered interest rate, and this lead to higher debt-dependence. As a result, businesses became more fragile. According to researches, wider inequality in US let top 1% people to save more, but less rise in investment. In contrast, the majority of people are in debt, which result in high reliance on finance and too much burden on borrowers, and demand inevitably rely on debts. To solve this too much reliance on debts, we can 1: reduce tax shield on debts, and 2: change government lending to equity purchases.


## 5/7
- Many amateur investors bought oil ETFs in oil price plunge in April 2020 are blind about rollover risk. The future ETFs needs to sell the assets with short maturity and buy ones with long maturity to keep it as *future* ETF. If the current price is low but future price is high, the amount of oil ETF holds will be less, and this situation is called "contango." Thus, theoretically, the loss by future ETF has no limit.

## 5/8
- Among all big-tech companies, Twitter is doing worst job at taking down fake news. According to Oxford's research, 60% of fake contents on Twitter are still online while the rate was 27% for YouTube and 24% for Facebook. Recently, Twitter Japan started collaborating with JCI-Japan, which is notorious for far-right behaviors. Governments should take immediate actions to let them take down those news.

## 5/11
- Many countries begin loosing restrictions in hope of recovering their economies, but those loosening can easily be reverted. South Korea recently had no infections and loosed some restrictions, but recently confirmed 34 new cases, and set restrictions again. As it is far from getting herd immunity (estimated 3-5 years, assuming no virus mutation), the fight against the virus will be prolonged war.
- Warren Buffet said you can "bet on America, you are going to have to be careful how you bet". As he sold all of his stock of airline companies, we shouldn't blindly purchase US stocks anymore. In the financial crisis of 2008, he purchased lot of stocks of banking sector, but he is showing opposite move in this coronavirus crisis. This move indicate the possibility of permanent change in US economy. We many think that tech sector is safe place to invest, but growing tech nationalism across the world makes the industry unstable.
- Japanese finance ministry announced the new rule that foreign investors need to notify before they buy one percent of specific stocks. The stock includes Toyota, Sony, and some hotel, hot spring companies. Japan's low productivity is mainly due to lazy management and lack of shareholder activism caused by too much cross ownership. The new rule worsened the low productivity of Japanese companies.
