---
layout: post
title:  "FT week 02 (March 23-27, 2020)"
categories: Finance
tags: FT
author: K.Asaba
draft: Ture
description: Thoughts on Financial Times (March 16-20, 2020)
---

# Thoughts
- A good point about Fed's rate cut to zero is cooperation with other countries, as it leads to the stable currency exchange rate.

# 2020/03/16

- Germany also starts shutdown.
- Fed rate is now almost 0%. Market rebounds about 9% as a result.
- Passive funds (Bridgewater, BlackRock) and Bridge water are losing money.



# 2020/03/17
- U.S. stock market's reaction on Fed rate cut was rather negative - it lead 6% down in stock price in the first 1 minute after the market is open. 
- Renaissance Technologies, Bridgewater, and  BlackRock suffer from big losses.

### Questions
- On March-3, Fed cut the rate by 0.5%, but the stock went down. 


# 2020/03/18

- Young ppl can act as usual sooner than old ppl.
- Even is domestic shutdowns are successful, international movement ban can prolong
- Running out of money, l.a.s yo depression.
- Poor people→get sick, no money to go to hospital, forced to work
- No need to worry about moral hazard when central banks or government to prevent bankruptcy because is us once-in-a-century crisis


# 2020/03/19
- Stock prices keep falling.
- Usually it leads to the increase in safe asset prices, but this time its opposite, indicating finds are collecting money to pay back their investors
- US plans to conduct the direct cash handout
- Each handout gives maximum of $1000 to ppl twice
- Payroll tax cut is not enough because it doesn’t help unemployed

# 2020/03/20
- Why Bridgewater’s fund lost during corona shock: prices of all types of assets (stocks, bonds, commodities) went down.
- In 2008 crisis, bond price went up thus they are able to make profit
- But this time, all types of assets plunged
- This is because investors are in need of cash this time to prevent bankruptcy
